# Nano URL Backend

This is the backend server for Nano URL, a URL shortening service. This service allows users to create short aliases for long URLs, making them easier to share and manage.

## Features

- Shorten long URLs to unique, easy-to-share aliases.
- Redirect users from shortened URLs to their original long URLs.
- Track usage statistics for shortened URLs.

## Technologies Used

- Node.js: A JavaScript runtime for building server-side applications.
- Express.js: A web application framework for Node.js used for building APIs and web apps.
- MongoDB: A NoSQL database used for storing URL mappings and usage statistics.
- Mongoose: An Object Data Modeling (ODM) library for MongoDB and Node.js.
- NanoId: A tiny, secure, URL-friendly, unique string ID generator for JavaScript.
- Other dependencies listed in `package.json`.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js and npm installed on your machine.
- MongoDB installed locally or accessible remotely.

### Installation

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.
2. Navigate to the project directory in your terminal.
3. Install dependencies by running `npm install`.

### Configuration

1. Create a `.env` file in the root directory of the project.
2. Define environment variables such as `PORT`, `MONGODB_URI`, and any other necessary configurations.

### Running the Server

1. Run `npm start` to start the server.
2. The server should now be running on the specified port.

## Usage

- Use API endpoints to interact with the Nano URL service.
- Refer to the API documentation for detailed usage instructions.

## API Documentation

### Endpoints

#### 1. Redirect to Original URL

- **Endpoint:** `GET /:link`
- **Description:** Redirects a user to the original URL corresponding to the provided shortened link.
- **Parameters:**
  - `link`: Shortened link generated by Nano URL.
- **Response:**
  - Redirects the user to the original URL if found.

#### 2. Shorten URL

- **Endpoint:** `POST /shorten`
- **Description:** Shortens a URL and returns a shortened link.
- **Request Body:**
  ```json
  {
    "original": "https://example.com",
    "cookie": true
  }
  ```
- **Response:**
  ```json
  {
    "original": "https://example.com",
    "shortened": "https://nano-url.com/Z5R8",
    "isSafe": true,
    "users": 42
  }
  ```
- **Note**: If the cookie value in the request body is `
true`, a cookie called "nano-url" will be set to indicate all user saved links.

#### 3. Delete URL

- **Endpoint:** `POST /delete`
- **Description:** Removes a URL from the user's saved list, but does not removes it from the database.
- **Request Body:**
  ```json
  {
    "shortened": "https://nano-url.com/Z5R8"
  }
  ```
- **Response:**
  - No content. Returns a success status code upon successful deletion of the URL from the cookie.

### Authentication

The Nano URL API does not require authentication.

### Error Handling

- The API returns appropriate HTTP status codes and error messages for different scenarios, such as invalid requests or missing resources.
- Refer to the HTTP status codes and error messages in the response for troubleshooting.

### Rate Limiting

Currently, the Nano URL API does not impose rate limits on requests. However, rate limiting can be implemented to prevent abuse or excessive usage in production environments.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

